im going to write candidly about Have a Good Day here
the album consists of songs i've written in the past year, with a few maybe a little bit older than that
the main deadline i set for myself was my 18th birthday. that's in a little over a week at the time of writing.
there was more that i wanted to do for this album but for the past week or so i've tried doing it and it just didn't seem to want to be done.
i wanted to finish more songs than i have. there are 3-5 songs i'd tried finishing on time but none of them got to a stage i was happy with, or alternatively they got to a finished stage and i didn't like the result.
there was one song called "good debt" that i finished and then decided i didn't like. it may return at a later date.
the songs that didn't make it onto the album are one thing, but now i want to talk about the ones that did.
they are unfinished
they sound rough
the mixing and mastering is practically nonexistent
the instrumentation (especially the drums) is amateurish
but the songs refuse to be refined further.
this album is at least in part supposed to be a snapshot of where i am (was?) before adulthood.
it's not a concept album but it needs to be made in the style of my current psyche (god i take myself seriously don't i. lighten up fucker)
that being said, theres a lot of moments i fixed and ended up unfixing because i didn't like the fix
at the end of "new song" i don't really hit the high note, twice.
the other day i went back and rerecorded that
i deleted the rerecording (i think)
my voice didn't have the same character to it.
i recorded that song soon after (and to be quite honest during) writing it.
the spirit in my voice is from that snapshot of the space i was in at the time. it's a song that at least started off being about how my creative process was failing.
i think it kind of tailed off into more general anxieties as it went on but then that in itself is an illustration of my failing creative process.
im rambling
i should talk about the songs in a slightly more orderly way

the first song on this album that i wrote was probably "outer space part one". when i wrote it it was called "awake" but that's not quite my brand of pretentious so i changed it. when i wrote it i was also doing it under a project name that wasn't attention the universe. i basically wanted to be jake chudnow, the guy who does all the vsauce music. i downloaded a juno vst (that now breaks my daw rip) and kind of just went for it. this song, and part 2, are simply included as a snapshot of what i was doing when i was afraid to record my singing voice.

part 2 was also from the very early days. i found it in my ableton lite projects. i don't remember writing it.

everything else was from much more recently, probably at most just over a year ago. the first one of the ones where i sing that i wrote was "sound". it's still one of my favourites. i wrote a couple of other songs before it that mostly sucked and i didn't include in the album because i couldn't be bothered to finish them (you aren't missing anything). i think the reason sound was the first one i liked is because for the first time i actually just wrote about something, instead of just kind of winging it. i'm still working on doing that consistently. all of the instrumentation is digital at this point. you notice a shift towards more and more live stuff as the songs get more recent.

"untitled" was next. it never had a title as far as i'm aware. again, this one was actually about something, but it's a more personal memory and not just a general concept. i don't have a whole lot to say about it right now idk

i can't exactly remember what came next but i think it was "take me apart". it's one of the more pretentious ones but again it's a snapshot of where i was at the time. there's less you can say about a song with a spoken word component because you kind of already say it in the song.

after that the songs are basically chronological (as far as i can remember). coming back to "new song" another thing i tried to fix was adding drums. i started to add some but my timing wasn't great when i first recorded it so they didn't quite work. my options were either re record basically the whole thing and lose all of the feeling, or don't add drums. i went for the second one.

"voyager" is nice. i like space. i like the fact that we fling messages into space. shared themes with "sound" in that regard.

"window" i vividly remember writing while staring out the window. when i was playing around on my drum machine i came up with the beat that i knew had to be a part of it. sadly, like "new song" my timing is a bit off and it sounds kinda stretchy so the drums don't always line up. it's the sort of thing that if i fixed it i would have to throw out all of the feeling in the piece. i think that whole thing makes me a bad artist but i don't care. im 17. five people total are ever gonna hear this.

"lying on the ground" was written pre-emptively. i wrote it for someone i didn't know yet. sure enough about ninety nine days before this album's release they came into my life and made it so much better. i essentially improvised it, and rerecorded it a couple times with the levels fixed. none of them worked as well as the imperfect first one. there's a lot more i could write about it but i'd manage to sound like both an emo and a pretentious asshole. to be completely fair i probably am both of those things. in a good album i wouldn't have included it. luckily this isn't a good album.

"gaze" is a happy song. i wrote it a few days ago. it isn't about my someone. there's elements that might subtly involve them, but it's much more about my childhood. i wrote another song about them but it's one of the 3-5. oh yeah i also basically missed out the word "there's". good job me. not gonna fix it.
